Okay,
we should be live here. Hello.
Let me go set the Twitch category
software.
All right. Cool.
That works.
Nice.
Okay.
Hello, folks.
So overnight
we ran a nice sweep on the maze
environment with curriculum
and it looks like in about 7 minutes
we have it solved to 87%.
So 87% on 35 by35 mazes.
I started a new sweep this morning just
to see if the baseline could get
anything. And so far the baseline has
failed to get, you know, any reasonable
score.
Hey Jess
Plasma,
I mean this is quite a um a significant
thing. Now look, we probably are going
to have to sweep more um for the
baseline just to see if there's
anything. But frankly, I would be
shocked
if uh you could get anything remotely
reasonable out of puffer 4 on this task,
right?
You literally get a reward one in 10
million steps.
So
unless Puffer 4 is just way way better
than expected somehow in a way that I
like can't possibly fathom,
I think this is safely a major
breakthrough. A very major breakthrough.
The encoding layer we talked about
uh was it the entity encoder?
Uh it's there's uh there's some like
crappy codeex kernel and stuff in the
tests folder.
I need to integrate it properly and like
write it correctly.
Uh it's the encoder. It's specifically
pointwise to dim 16 then relu and then a
fused kernel for uh linear and then max
over the entity dimension on hidden size
128 or more.
Okay, I'm a little slow here today. So,
I think we're just going to take the
first little bit of the stream here to
figure out what we do. What do we do
from this? Like what do we do next?
We have some environments done.
This is set up.
This is done.
This is going to be a bigger question.
That's the same one. Yes. Plasma.
Um if you implement the same operation
in pure pietorch it will be slow. You
need a custom kernel.
The sanity ends ended up not being super
great.
I actually do not care about these as
much.
Local bottom will be nice.
I think that the next thing to do will
be to run a sweep on 2048.
We do have a CUDA version plasma.
Colonel means cuda.
When I say kernel, I mean cuda. I don't
mean shitty Triton [__] or whatever.
Let's go check 2048.
I told you, man. I just told you.
Look, I said you look in tests
point linear max kernel CU
crappy codeex FC max
right
literally right there.
Ah, we got to reboot this uh ducker.
G like 2048's a little like a is a
little bit like the Inferno if you
squint your brain at it.
Also speaking which Val should be back
today.
The purpose of the encoding layer, that
specific one is to handle entity data.
So you have a bunch of things in the
environment that you can observe and
their order doesn't matter. It's a set
encoder.
Like you have a bunch of agents to
observe or a bunch of points or
whatever.
Mhm. Exactly. And it was unsolved
before. Arch, this was an unsolved
problem. How to do this efficiently and
I solved it.
Okay,
we got this little baseline.
Then we've got this one.
Now, the thing is I don't know if this
is a particularly good test case because
um
this just gets zero everywhere.
I might need to just do some other
sample method. We'll see.
the sphere encode. No,
it's much simpler.
The new encoding layer has already been
vetted. So, here, let me pull up the
slide deck. I use this one for clients.
Let me pull up the client slide deck. I
may use it for labs as well.
Okay, this environment here, this was
solved.
This was solved with the new encoder.
So, it's the puffers have to spread out.
Like, you see that there two blue
targets and they're multiple blue
puffers.
Like, they can't both go to the same
target because the target goes on cool
down for a second or two every time you
hit it. So, the efficient thing to do,
you always want to keep all these
square, all the stars dark. And you can
see they're doing a pretty good job of
just keeping all the squares dark with
the exception being if a star spawn
spawn super far away, it's not worth it
to go there. You just wait for the other
one. Um,
but this is like a pretty effective
coordination thing.
And this did not work no matter what I
tried before until I did this
architecture.
And then it worked instantly. This is
the whole EN. So if you want something
to play with the architecture, the EN is
in 40 and it's called minimal.
It's a very simple encoder. The thing is
it's not meant to be like fancy. The
point is that it takes an operation that
is traditionally very expensive to
compute and it makes it very efficient.
It's like a 10x improvement.
Uh no plasma. So I did it as a oneoff,
right? So I fix I did this as a oneoff
test and I did not have time to
integrate the kernel generally in a
reasonable way.
I will do that though.
I mean, this is literally the type of
thing that if you have like you can just
get codeex to do it temporarily on your
branch until you get a clean version
from me.
Where can I read about it?
I mean, it this is in progress research.
I don't have reports instantly on
everything I do. It's literally just
like fully connected to dim 16 ReLU
fully connected to your actual hidden
dim and then max over entities. And that
last layer is fused kernel. It's a fused
max. So, the key here is it gives you a
two-layer encoder with a very small
intermediate layer that's not super
expensive to materialize.
And it gives you the full uh the full
encoding to your hidden size on the last
layer, but it's efficient with the max.
It's in tests, Jess. It's in tests on
even 40.
I don't know if the kernel's any good to
be fair. I just like it's the type of
thing where even a super basic kernel
should just be way better than the
default.
Okay, so let me think of what we want to
actually do today. I'm a little off
today. Um
the run this morning was just super hard
and then
I got kind of sloppy on my deadlift
form. I hurt my back a little bit. I'm
feeling a little bit off.
Oh, you know what? Let me go grab one
thing. Let me go grab one thing real
quick.
Okay.
See if it works.
Uh, it does work on minimal plasma.
If you want to integrate it and try it
on that first, then by all means, but it
does work.
So the decision tree here
provided we don't somehow get a good
solve for 35 by35s with puffer 4
defaults
um which I think is next to impossible.
we
have full confidence we've made a major
breakthrough. Right?
Then the question is practically
speaking this lets you solve a
qualitatively new type of problem. But
where does this actually help?
So
we will sweep this instead of
prioritized experience replay
on 2048.
We will compare that to the puffer four
curve.
That will take the whole day for that
sweep. We will not bottleneck on that.
Uh in the meanwhile, we will use mazes
as our confirmation check that we
haven't broken anything.
And we clean up the kernels, I suppose.
What do we do about peer though?
I suppose we keep peer for now.
We can consider dropping it in the
future.
You know, I really wouldn't be surprised
actually if they're both helpful, right?
I wouldn't be surprised if you do
actually just want two layers of peer.
In fact, we should just sweep with both.
Yeah, Jess. I mean, I do my best. I
actually I get some people in academia
like saying, "Oh, you know, you don't
control this or that or you know, you
don't run these experiments or that."
But like, I actually think that overall
my method produces way more consistent
results. Well, I don't think it does
produce way more consistent results than
you see in academia cuz my stuff
actually replicates.
Um
I suppose it's it's a little bit more
difficult in my case because I don't
consider like two experiments
uh sufficient evidence for anything. But
like when I want to test if a new
feature works, I have to run a full
hyper pram sweep and then if I have like
a bunch of new features in combination,
you get massive blow up of the compute
requirements.
I'm gonna let this finish. I'm going to
launch the new one and then we're going
to do colonel stuff.
Val, my man, I hope your interview went
well.
We We have a major breakthrough here.
Um, I don't know if you were around for
the super sparse maze result yesterday.
We do have a major breakthrough.
Uh, I'm going to try this on 2048 next.
If you squint, like 2048 is kind of like
Inferno
in the sense that it's a very long
horizon problem that introduces new
mechanics
um as you get deeper into it. So, I
think that'll be a nice test
environment,
but we live and learn. Did it drop a
message
about interview
happily implement an inferno.
Yeah, honestly like you don't need to
change the inferno any more than you
already did Volo. If you already made it
state setable, that piece is the same.
Even you can even get the state setable
one PR up. It went terrible.
Rep. That sucks, man.
Interviews are kind of a pain in the
ass.
If you want to not feel stupid about
that, um I had a deep mind interview in
my uh during my PhD where
like they asked me to graph sine of x
squared and I just looked at the dude
dumbfounded like what in the [__] And
you know if I'd sat down and thought
about it for a couple minutes I'd
probably like oh duh. But like what the
[__]
Weird trivia questions. Yeah, I've had
that before. If a company is too dumb to
interview properly, you don't want to be
there.
The interviewers are very dumb.
CUDA version is in five. No, it's not.
This is branch 40
tests
point linear max kernel.cu.
Is this not it?
Wrong fork.
goal for today.
We're going to chuck this on to 2048.
Uh we're probably going to start a sweep
on this in a little bit
once this runs a little longer. And I
think while we're doing this, we're
going to start messing with kernels.
That's the most likely um the most
likely thing. We're going to start
refining the approach a little bit.
Yeah, I think that's what we're going to
end up doing. Um,
this is running nice.
So, I'm not going to let it just clean
everything up on its own, but I am going
to let it write a benchmark um for this
the logs
of feature changes.
Wait, how are you handling the logs of
beep? Oh yeah, Spencer. I'm just like
I'm just renaming the folder.
If you literally just rename the folder,
like constellation just picks up
whatever folders you have in the logs
directory. So it's very very easy.
So, like I've just moved all our default
logs out and then I just have like logs
for a few ms worth of sweep like a few
uh a few sweeps worth of experiments on
different versions.
That's pretty nice.
Won't it write diff folders of same end
with
on visual tell of what's diff and con?
It uses the folder name.
I'm pretty sure. Yeah, it uses the
folder name um in constellation.
So, I've been able to do this just fine
here. Let's see
here. Like this is one that I had
before. So, this is for this password.
And if you see these are just the folder
names
and you get the the name when you right
click. It's super laggy under Windows
for some reason.
But that's probably Winders.
Okay. So,
I basically need to know um how much
time we're going to waste on the
sampling op.
works for me. Yeah, it's not that bad,
right?
Robocode can look very cool as well. Um,
it's not surprising me that it figured
out like a basic ramming strategy when
the opponent has no evasion. There are
bots that just try to ram into each
other. You do damage when you ram.
which I think I implemented. I don't
remember.
What is this? Oh, this is profile code.
That's fine.
We'll get the timings first to see if
it's fast and then I will clean up the
code
doing here.
Not going super well.
But I mean, these are just guessing
hypers, so this is fine.
I'm going to be right back. I'm going to
go use the restroom real quick and grab
a couple things and uh we will do
colonels. Little slow start this
morning, but it's okay. Don't I have my
be right back screen?
Yeah, there we go.
All right.
Damn, my back is really messed up.
Let's see what we got.
Oh, good timing here, but this is
terrible score.
We'll keep running some small things in
the background.
All right. Yeah, this is just a profile.
Cool.
Add all sorts of [__]
that we're going to end up deleting a
lot of. Is there anything better I
should be using than a priority queue?
I think priority Q is the right
structure here, right?
Everything else would be like strictly
based on the history.
Yeah, I saw that plasma.
Yeah, I should probably shouldn't make
it the season and the year,
you know.
We can also test this on breakout for
speed, can't we?
Just do that.
Yeah, this is better already, I think.
Or should she?
Okay, this still has not found anything
remotely better.
Yeah, I don't think that's going to find
anything.
Okay, we can probably get a 20 48 sweep
going then.
The idea here is to get uh 2048 sweeping
while we're doing other stuff today.
something like Yes.
Yeah.
I think this is fine.
And um what was it? The mini batch. I
think we did an inal
and total agents. Is that right?
Yeah.
Oops.
Why don't I work at a frontier lab?
They're not doing this stuff.
The frontier labs have become very large
and bloated. They're basically doing
products now.
Um, I think that you have very very
little impact.
Uh, if you're the type that like can
just kind of do crazy out there stuff,
you can do way more cool stuff just
doing crazy out there stuff on your own.
Plus, this is more fun.
I do genuinely think we're going to get
some nutty nutty progress out of
reinforcement learning in the next year.
Something happened with the mini batch
size clearly.
Let me double check this.
I don't want to have a restricted sweep.
Okay, we did sweep mini batch size
and we did sweep total agents.
So, let's undo these these changes.
Yeah, I saw that, Ethan.
I mean, in a sense, like why don't you
work at a frontier lab? Like, if you
think about it, Puffer is the frontier
lab for um this type of stuff.
But actually,
The snarky answer to that question is
that I Hell.
Next breakthrough in RL.
Pepper. We just made a major one
yesterday. Like give a guy a break.
Let me actually clean this one up and
test it and then we'll think about the
next one.
All
right.
What puffer did Puffer do yesterday? So,
imagine you have an environment where
you get a reward one in 10 million
times. How the hell do you solve
something like that? One in 10 million
actions that you take, you'll get a
reward. Well, what you do is you run
Puffer 5 and you just insta solve it.
We got some like pretty ridiculous
exploration with state sets. Um, I refer
this to as this the latching problem,
which is when you get a very rare
reward, how quickly do you latch on to
it? We solved that problem. This is a
problem that I've thought about for
seven or eight years now, and we solved
it yesterday.
Yeah, I know. They make vector
databases. It's funny.
There's another puffer
alpha, beta in peer. No, peer in epoch
per alone, at least from the initial
sweep, gets zero score on the problem we
solved. And it would be very surprising
if anything not using this exact type of
method, uh, were able to solve it.
It's like just it's ridiculously
unlikely.
It's a way of build. Uh, no, it's not
part of the environment, Pepper.
It's It's not part of the environment.
You have to have a separate encoder.
Let's go look at this.
What in the hell?
22 ms. Are you kidding me?
This is garbage mode.
Uh the problem that I just solved would
be impossible to solve with scaling
compute.
Like this is incredibly obvious if you
actually sit down for five minutes and
think about it.
There's just very little of that going
on lately.
Okay.
Yeah. So the problem is uh sparse mazes.
So you get randomly generated 35x35
mazes. the probability of solving uh a
maze by taking random actions.
So like the number of steps I should say
it takes to solve a maze by random
actions is approximately 10 million. I
benchmarked it.
And since you get zero reward until you
solve the maze, all you can do is take
random actions.
Um Huffer 5 solves this solves this
problem. We get 87% completion rate of
mazes.
Uh, anything that I've done so far with
puffer 4 gets 0%. Like 0 point whatever
it is 006 or something which corresponds
to roughly the 1 in 10 million um solve
rate like the 1 in 10 million random
chance.
Maybe very slightly above
Yes, but like that's not the point,
right?
This is a fully general algorithm.
In particular, this does not use the
fact that there are small number of
total states. Um, it doesn't even rely
on the environment being deterministic.
It's a fully general setup.
The only assumption is that you can set
the state of the environment. And the uh
the key insight in puffer 5 is that we
can always write our environment to be
like that.
Yeah, this is too many stupid kernels.
Would model based RL solve it?
Um,
no,
not on its own
because you're still getting zero
reward.
breakthrough from yesterday. It's a
state setbased algorithm
that it's a general way to
return to highinterest states.
It's a combination of prioritized
experience replay though not that much
of that anymore actually. I guess it's
kind of no longer that. Well, it was
starting with prioritize experience
replay and then we optimized it but then
overstate set. So go explore style.
No, you still can't.
You can't solve this problem otherwise
like you can go check the literature
like this is order more than an order of
magnitude harder than problems that
you'll see in the lit.
The only ways that I've seen that solve
this use domain information.
Raw state sets. No action masks.
Yep.
It's pretty nuts. You basically have to
get the reward like once or a
singledigit number of times and uh it
just latches on to it perfectly.
Okay, you know what we should do right
now is we should
we should pull the results so we can
tell which of these things actually
matter.
Um I can guarantee you like there is no
form of Q-learning that is reasonable
for this.
If you want to look at my um in fact I
can make a stronger statement which is I
don't think there's any form of an off
policy method that's even reasonable
you can check my article from last
summer why RL failed to bootstrap.
I have I I have what I consider pretty
convincing evidence that like off policy
RL is just doomed.
It's just a dead end.
Again,
tabular relies on having a small number
of states.
It's irrelevant, right? The goal is not
to gimmick the problem by exploiting
domain information.
See, this is I actually have been
meaning to write an article about this
um about the usage of like toy tasks and
reinforcement learning.
And it's kind of funny because I used to
hate this type of stuff where it's like,
oh, you like a relatively simple looking
task that you can solve in a number of
ways. But uh as I've gained experience,
I found that actually tasks like this
are incredibly useful if you just
approach them correctly. Like you just
have to be very careful that you're not
somehow exploiting domain information
that trivializes it.
How many states did you have?
Well, Arch, I can add a little tiny bit
of noise for instance, and then you have
an infinite number of states.
But the thing is, it's not even fully
observed. It's partially observed
anyways. And actually, the mazes are
randomized. So like you basically have
unlimited states anyways.
It's mood.
I need to get something for my back.
Really messed up my back this morning.
It's better.
Okay. So, this is this is our data here.
Yeah, it's a general solver.
It's pretty cool. I mean, look, it's
very odd because this problem you can
make it dramatically easier by changing
a few very small things here and there.
Uh, interesting. Actually, it's using
half the data as CL.
Oh, wait. No, this is log scale. Let's
do lin scale.
Interesting. It's actually using a small
amount of CL data.
Hm.
That's a very interesting result.
It actually uses a very small state
buffer. It seems
the best results are actually all the
way at like 100.
Yeah, it's random. It's a random maze.
Technically, it's a set of 8,000 mazes,
but I guarantee you it won't change if
you just make it random every time. We
just do that for Perf.
320. This one's the nicest one, I think,
right here.
Oh, I'm also interested to see the uh
the exploration decay. Let's do that
real quick.
How does it have memory to solve the
maze?
Uh, it doesn't. It has to explore. It
has to learn to explore.
It has memory, but not enough to solve
the maze.
So,
uh, Jess, I don't know that that is so
much of, um, the problem with that is
just that the longer runs, like
it's actually probably just related to
the learning rate in I would imagine.
We can probably figure something out
with it.
It's a little tricky Oh,
they all crashed.
Yeah. No.
Weird.
Few of them crashed.
Okay, this is what we wanted, right?
This is the exploration decay.
So, this in my mind, this shows us that
um this was a good idea.
Yeah, right here. at this one.
Debug crap in a moment as well.
This
Yeah, that's good, right?
Not great.
Well, I suppose we should just like
clean this all up First
very small buffer as well, right?
But that's going to be task dependent.
Okay, what we're going to do
going to take these parameters.
Huh?
Wait, what?
I thought I added in better params.
What?
Oh, I know what happened.
Uh yeah, we're working on maze a little
bit, but we're going to start to clean
up the stuff generally.
like This
be much faster.
See,
loops.
Yeah. Um,
it's not the result is not Oh, yay. It's
a general maze. Why is it so [__]
slow?
The hell.
I think this thing [__] with it.
Unless I didn't read the time scale
correctly.
Of course.
Yeah. Know this should not be that slow.
Something's [__] up.
Oh, wait. What? How is this using
Why does this have 36% memory usage on
Huh?
What's using this?
Oh, am I on the wrong
Damn it. Wrong machine.
the right speed.
Yeah, that's way better.
Let's see if this works.
here. So, this is the key, right? So,
that's the first time it got the reward.
It took it like millions of steps to get
the reward the first time. And do you
see this? It actually latched on to that
initial reward. And this score is
starting to go up.
That's the key.
We'll let this one run and then we'll do
um we'll test breakout and stuff
like a sparse reward. Yes, very sparse
reward.
One in 10 million to get a reward by
random chance
back. Good.
Make sure that this replicates This
I'm going to try this. What I'm going to
do is after this, we're going to throw
it on breakout and we're going to see
how much speed it costs us on breakout
and we're going to use that to optimize.
So, we have our fastest um end as
optimization test.
when you need to offset. Uh so it's if
you have ends that are going to all
finish in the same number of time steps,
right? So, like let's say you have an N
that has a that's like always going to
run 5k time steps.
Then you probably what you want to do is
for the first time you initialize them,
initialize them already like between one
and 5,000 steps through randomly so that
you break the um
so that they desynchronize essentially.
With chess though, this shouldn't be an
issue, right? Because the games are
different lengths.
I don't know what end you are on.
I mean, you should notice this quite
quickly because you'll get very noisy
logs. Like the telltale of that is your
score just jumping around a ton.
I see.
Yeah, that'll do it.
Uh yes, the model does have memory.
Our standard model has memory.
Okay.
So
that's like okay at least
This is what we were going to try here.
And let's do
this is mostly just a speed test.
Anything that we get above just like
doing speed tests here is bonus.
Okay,
no per hit. Oh, obviously scores way
worse.
with the 100 states at least
not really hurting our our perf at all
eight microsconds.
Let's do this.
Way better.
Uh yes, cla zero would be the normal
algorithm.
It's actually interesting that um it
didn't need very much CL data
in order to do very good.
We also have not yet swept with both.
So I think the um the prioritized replay
so our normal per gets much weaker with
Horizon typically.
The state set one doesn't.
Okay.
The thing I wanted to test with this,
so this is going to be warm-up states
and state buffer size.
Oh, it doesn't hurt at all.
That's nice.
Oh, what? And it does way better.
H.
Okay. I mean, this seems like there's no
overhead now.
Probably if I do bigger it gets um
still very minimal.
This is all very new, Ethan. We have to
um there's a lot of like experimental
work to be done to validate and tune
this. The initial result is there, but
it's an initial result on an end where
like this should absolutely work.
So, it's still a breakthrough in the
sense that we solved an impossible
problem.
I'm very happy with it. But to get this
thing to be broadly useful, we're
probably going to have to tune it a fair
bit. I wouldn't be surprised.
Yeah, just two weeks.
Two weeks for the core results and like
cleaned code um like already like
packaged up some results. Yeah. Well, I
mean the thing I have the main question
is going to be like what does this do on
other environments and such. Um,
I think if anything, we'll be early on
this. like we'll probably be done with
the the core stuff
near the start of next week and then
I'll probably work on the various other
smaller things that we wanted to package
into 5.
Um, I'm not going to need like a crazy
monthlong break for Puffer 5. No,
I have some stuff towards the end of the
summer, Jess. So, I guess it depends how
much we do in Puffer 5, you know, like
there's the selfplay thing. There's all
sorts of little topics, but still,
Puffer 5 is going to be a fairly short
and nicely contained update.
What problem did it solve? So the
problem is 35x 35 sparse mazes
randomly generated. You have a 1 in 10
million chance to get a lucky solve. So
one in it takes 10 million steps rather
um to get a single solve by random
chance on average.
That makes the problem virtually
impossible for any of your typical
algorithms. We are able to latch on to
that single reward basically instantly
and we can solve that problem
effectively.
client stuff. Yeah, lots of client
stuff, Jess.
In fact, you know, I probably do need to
spend some more time as well on the
business. Um, you know, we could use I I
think Puffer is now ready for some
larger clients
and I'm going to have to put some work
into making sure that that happens.
all this debug crap gone.
I'm just doing the rough initial
cleanups with this first.
um both E10.
Yeah, both.
ideal client for us like either is sort
of doing some RL now or tried RL and
like sees that it would be really
valuable but it was hard
and wants to get their thing super
higherf onto all our tools. Um, that's
kind of what we look for.
Uh the only one of those that I am
allowed to name
um is the startup archive
because uh their environment well yeah
the environment that we work on for them
is currently open source
that is like an automated um it's like
an it's a startup working on automating
commerce and marketplaces
and we build a marketplace in for
and tired.
I think I'm just tired because my back
is killing me.
We'll retire a little bit early this
evening and um
spend some time in the hot tub. See if
that helps.
Stupid man. I just got lazy on my form
with the deadlifts this morning because
I was super tired from the run.
Yeah, I don't really want to do that at
the moment, Jess.
I mean, that'll dull me as well for um
the work.
So, now we can go source.
Am I on the right mission?
Uh, no.
Okay. Chunky pile.
Thank you.
Make sure this still works.
the env
maze. Oh, the uh the client end. Hang
on.
I'll show you.
Oh, yeah. Star the puffer if you haven't
already, folks. Um it's free and all our
stuff is free. It really helps me spend
less time advertising for companies and
then they come to us and I get to spend
more of my time on research.
Here it is. Archive Puppar.
And then there's um there's some
branches.
Mhm.
Okay. So, there's some duping
GPU. This box I'm training on a 5090.
This box is a multiGPU one with six
4090s.
We have a few other boxes as well.
I need to get some more. So, if anybody
could get the um market price of 5090s
back down to something that's not total
horseshit, that'd be great.
Cloud
um in our facility,
buffer training facility, we just got a
big rack with a whole bunch of machines
on them.
See this
Mhm.
It's funny that 4090s are about the same
speed as H00's for us,
but even like 21 nodes of 4090s is
plenty
centers. Yeah, but it's mostly the RAM,
man, because the data centers aren't
putting 5090s in them.
Not that bad spirit.
The boxes cost um
the six GPU boxes only are like 2
kilowatts or whatever.
So that's like a quarter per hour.
And renting multiGPU boxes is way more
cluster nodes.
uh I actually really didn't have access
to a ton spirit
and we had a ton of CPUs actually for a
lot of it. Like the RL code was so crap
back then.
The hell?
Well, this is not worth it anymore at
all. It still wasn't. I It was already
ridiculous at 45.
Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait. This is the
um No, no. These are the 6000s, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hang on. I'm dumb.
Those are the That's the other ones.
Yeah, this is the other one.
I'll be good in a day or two, Ethan.
Uh, I don't think that's remotely true.
Spirit
This is just merging a few small things.
Yep.
This
What do you mean? Can you elaborate?
They're not just like magically faster
at all types of like at all workloads.
this run this.
I have to start getting my hands dirty
with this soon, but And this wasn't that
big of a
This also wasn't that big of a a fix.
It's a kind of a mess, honestly.
We're going to have to just figure out
clean some stuff up.
Don't do this [__] with macros.
mouse.
He
cuz it did this [__] right?
Conditional crap on macros is just
awful.
Why is it doing this?
all the streams.
I I actually have to like think about
this for cleanups now, don't I?
Yeah. I think the truth, Liberty, is
like very few people actually understand
the technicals of what the hell's going
on with quantum stuff and how much stuff
is actually legitimate.
Um, and the things are expensive and
fiddly enough that it's not going to be
relevant for a while.
[__] is this?
just does dumb [__]
Uh, okay. That's why it was there.
summary of where we are at the moment.
Uh we have made a major core research
breakthrough yesterday.
We're able to solve tasks of ridiculous,
ridiculous sparsity.
There's a whole bunch of crap code that
needs to be cleaned up now because
that's what happens when you
test a whole bunch of methods within two
or three days.
Okay, that's way better. That'll get rid
of a whole bunch of jank.
All this macro garbage will be gone.
And then soon we'll get this clean
enough that I'll actually be able to
think about it. But I want to just like
rip away the obvious jank pieces first
and then we'll be able to do that.
Yeah, like look at this stupid thing,
right?
Gone, gone, gone, gone.
GitHub. Um, all the stuff's at
puffer.ai.
Demos are on the website. GitHub is
linked there. Start the puffer to
support. It's free.
All right, cool. So, this is fine. Now,
um, obviously the prioritized replay
buffer is garbage, garbage.
We will figure out what to do about that
shortly.
We also have to figure out this stupid
state refresh method because I don't
want that to be a thing.
That might require a larger change.
And also
figure out why we're cuda oming here.
Yeah, we only have two GPUs going.
Um, mostly it's mostly ready to be
tested. I mean, this was the goal for
two weeks, right? So, the code's a mess.
It's 12:30. I will uh I think I'll have
it better by the end of the day. But
what you're seeing here, this is like
the automated pass where I'm just kind
of going through and like using codec to
fix obvious things. And then you're
going to see me be reading more of the
code and having codeex fix like less
obvious things. And then you're going to
see me go hand by hand, line by line,
and like do that most likely.
See, like look, all this crap gone,
right?
This is stuff that like I just let
Codeex toss into there because whatever,
you know, we'll fix it later. And now it
now it's later, you
thing about the state refresh thing.
I can probably go do that, right?
Yeah, this as well.
Yep. This is also like we can clean a
lot of stuff up in here for five.
We'll be good.
Good question, Liberty. Um,
I think that's going to be more so like
we'll see. Well, basically we will see
based on the results of uh sweeping this
on existing ends how much of a
difference it makes
qualitatively. There is a class of
problems before though that we could not
solve at all that now are solved
efficiently.
I honestly don't know man on the quantum
stuff and I think most of the people
giving you answers don't know either.
Um, so again, so the task that we used,
it's 35 by 35 mazes.
Um,
that you only get a reward at the very
end if you solve the maze.
That is so sparse that it would take 10
million steps on average to get a reward
a single time. The mazes are also
randomly generated, so you can't just
memorize it.
The new algorithm we have is able to
solve this efficiently.
And it does it in a way that doesn't
exploit any of the specific properties
of the domain. It's fully general.
I see. Okay. So, this is a little
annoying.
This is literally a problem I've thought
like this is a problem I first thought
about like seven years ago and um we
solved it today.
We solved it with a method that I
probably wouldn't consider to be
legitimate seven years ago, mind you,
but the method has become it has been
made legitimate by engineering
advancements uh in Puffer Lib.
Okay,
it's based on setting the simulator
state to a previously seen Hey,
You have too many buffers as well.
Yes.
Setting a simil setting to a previously
seen state.
It's not exactly data augmentation.
It's based vaguely off of Go Explore,
but then it um it replaces
it relies on reinforcement learning more
deeply and it replaces heruristics with
um uh general learned metrics.
Welcome. Yes. Uh we have made major
breakthrough on the curriculum yesterday
and I'm now cleaning it up and testing
it.
730 lines.
And keep in mind that a lot of this code
was from
before, right? This because this is also
our original prioritized experience
replay.
Are you
so many games and tasks is unified
framework writing the code for other
people?
So, it's both. Um, I write some tasks
and I write some of the ends. We have
contributors that write other ends. I do
a lot of the core algorithm work, though
we have a couple people helping with
that now as well.
It's a combination of things.
Okay, here we are. This is reasonable.
this CDF sampling. Uh, this is new.
A lot of code.
I think I know. I'm just double-checking
stuff.
I'm trying to get a sense of how much
code is being added versus how much I
think should be being added.
This is 50. Yeah, I'm doing um I'm
cleaning the code up quite a bit today
and then we'll need to run some
experiments. I mean, this branch will
break a lot of M's until I update them.
So, we're mostly playing with mazes,
2048, and a couple other small things.
Let's build the Let's just make sure the
current thing works.
We'll just rerun training
and then we'll keep thinking about this.
So look, millions of steps, no score,
right?
You get the score once after 10 million
steps and then watch how quickly it'll
learn from that. Boom. Now it's starting
to learn already.
You see that?
It takes 10 million steps to see the
reward once and then within 5 million
steps after that it's already learning
non-trivially.
Uh 2048 should work. Yes. though we have
not seen um we have not yet seen
improvements on 2048 yet. But I think
that once we have this nice and fast and
cleaned up, I will suspect that we will
be able to do better at 2048 using this.
No, an environment doesn't have to be
solvable.
Um, if you have an environment on which
you get literally zero score though,
you'd better have a motivation for
Uh there are some improvements to car to
um protein. Uh Luke well Lucas sent
apparently some improvements. I need to
review those and that's going to be like
a bigger thing. I think we will do that
as part of 50. It's like that and a few
other small algorithmic tweaks. The main
main thing though in 5 is going to be um
state set based learning.
This is good.
as you expect. Congrats.
Oops.
I don't suppose Robocode is done after
all this time.
Uh, well, actually, Spencer just sent me
I actually just wanted him to start
working on that, believe it or not. And
he's been sending me videos of um of
training runs. So, actually, Robocode is
still a a super useful Oh, I didn't even
realize that was you as well. Oh, yeah.
To um congrats, man.
That's great.
Upper has been progressing very very
well
PhD at Nvidia.
I think that most of those are um
they're joint. It's usually like joint
with a university.
And yeah, Nvidia's cool. Nvidia is very
cool.
I think that's top of list for companies
we'd be uh interested in working with
given
that they have uh real engineers.
I think Nvidia is probably the only
company that has a significant number of
real engineers at this point.
I think a few folks at Nvidia are using
like bits of Puffer. Um, I've got a
couple contacts there. I need to spend
more time on business side. As you can
see, I spend a ton a ton of time just
like cranking out next version, next
version.
Well, I mean, that's what the streams
are, right?
I mean, if you go there, you'll have
plenty of people to tell about Puffer
and all the things here, right?
That's the easiest thing is we just see
uh you know people see puffer, people
start using it and then they start using
it at the companies that they're at
and then they think wow it would be much
much more efficient if we just had these
guys on our
Yeah, but anything you all want to do to
help promote is of course appreciated.
Hello, Jess. Uh we're mostly working on
cleaning up the curriculum
implementation. It is fast now, but
basically does not cost any time.
We can still run breakout. I think 19
something mil. We lost a couple percentf
that we're going to have to get back.
A puffer illustrated website.
RL researcher RL marketing.
Nah, not my style. Alo my style is just
both doing research.
This marketing GF would be awful.
Oh, thank Do
visualizations. Cool.
I mean, like I guess I'd want to know
what's the type of stuff that you want
to see that's not on the website.
We are going to need a good architecture
diagram for Puffer at some point. Um,
but that's kind of different
that I'll go AR. Yeah. So that's a
diagram.
That's like a big diagram. I was
thinking about that. Honestly, you're
not going to be able to go kernel by
kernel because like we honestly just
need to clean all that stuff up and
that'll change a lot. I do think it
Puffer would benefit from a nice
architecture diagram.
Something that I can like easily edit
and update.
That would be a really cool poster
actually. You know, I'm thinking of just
like a big poster for the puffer
architecture.
Yeah, with like the CPU, the GPU layout,
like all that off.
Walk through
26 points in has gotten to 94 score.
Nice, Spencer.
I am currently cleaning up all of the uh
curriculum crap, all the messy kernels
and things. It's a little bit annoying
because we need a priority queue and um
that just adds a bunch of code.
Uh Jess, I mean it's just faster is
better, right?
But that's it's not just it's no longer
just going to be the end of time. It
also includes copy time in that now.
Yeah. protein as well. Protein is quite
fancy.
See, the thing is making that poster
sound super cool and you could end up
with something really awesome, but I
just know that based on how I think,
doing something like that would be
incredibly difficult for me.
Yeah, I don't know how useful 60 minute
read.
I would like to have like a nice diagram
for the thing.
I'm almost tempted to have that thing
like the thing is a ray demo um where it
just like you know you can just it runs
the data flow and everything live.
That'd be cool.
You write about the new breakthrough in
a research paper. It'll be a blog post,
not a paper.
It'll probably be multiple blog posts.
I'm really sick of writing research
papers. If I do write any more, it's
going to be way less frequently.
Okay, that's a little bit of code gone.
More stuff gone.
Didn't really remove very much.
Uh, I bet it's the historical snapshot
thing.
Yeah, Volo, it's a pain, which is why
you see me spending all this time.
Oh, this is cool.
This is very
That'd be very nice to have that envin
puffer.
That's cool.
That's awesome.
Huh? Pretty
cool.
Yeah, we'd be very, very happy to have
that.
This still works.
All right, what do we have in here? We
got 700 lines. This is not 700 lines for
uh new curriculum, by the way. This is
700 lines for all curriculum including
the prioritized replay that is in
tomorrow.
Okay. Bug. Lovely.
Let me see.
Seems like 5v5. Uh, if you want to mess
with the moa end, then yes.
Uh, actually, yeah, there's one possible
thing that can get screwed up here.
Again,
if anybody wants to work on all these
M's, by all means, like
we're actually very happy now to be
taking larger end of project PRs,
especially if stuff is fast and stable,
cuz Puffer is getting quite good And um
we need harder problems to throw it at
I there's one bug I can potentially see
Here.
hard to measure. The reward is win. It's
hard to measure because you need ELO,
but we have ELO as part of um as part of
our self like the R&D selfplay like
that's already there.
It's annoying because ELO is a relative
metric though, which is why scripted
opponents are really nice because then
you can at least do win rate versed.
fix checkpoints work. Um, just a little
annoying
Okay, lovely.
Make sure that still works.
Okay. Well, this still runs. We'll see
if it's as good.
That's not the point, E10.
The point is that it's being done like
just selfplay.
You know, there's lots of work out there
on chess already. You already have
superhuman chess. It's not the point.
Jesus. This
Okay, this still works.
You're using scripted. No, so scripted
is for eval man. Like if you have a
scripted opponent, it's nice to be able
to evaluate against it.
See what we got here.
Ah, dated buffer. Cool.
Okay, we're down from 800 some odd to
664.
open.
at 61.
And then I'm going to have to start
looking through an actual like some real
amount of detail after this. I think
stuff that stands out to me is the
number of things being allocated looks
suspicious. Um,
yeah, this is a lot of crap. So, we can
probably save a little bit there.
functions with a [__] ton of arguments.
Actually, I think it's just this stupid
data type There.
633.
That's much better at least.
And then I have to actually start
reading it once this patch is done.
Make sure this still trains.
And I'm going to go get vitamins and
such
in a moment. Yeah. While this trains,
I'll go grab my vitamins and I will be
back in a few minutes. Thank you, folks.
The puffer on GitHub. back in a few.
All right.
this. We didn't break anything. You see,
still the same perf
629 lines. Good.
In the meantime,
Is it 32K? No, it's not 32K.
not use dense rewards.
Um, dense rewards are not necessarily
bad, Jess, but you need to know what
you're doing.
Okay, now I get to review this manually.
I am actually wondering if I should go
get some Advil if it would help because
like this is just like constant
[__]
I'm thinking I just tough it out for a
few more hours and then um
I like I sit in the hot tub for an hour
after stream and see if that helps.
I don't think I like slipped anything or
whatnot cuz I didn't get like any sharp
pain during lifting. I think I just
taxed the hell out of it.
Yeah, probably That's
okay. Here's the pryobuffer, right?
I'm going to stick this here.
This has a bunch of crap
doing.
This is just doing the thing I told it
to.
Okay. So, why do we have this much
stuff?
States
candidate states
priorities on the host. M scores on the
host.
E
pause.
A lot of crap.
Mostly the priority buffer.
Yeah, this kind of crappy colonel. Sure.
Curriculum checkpoint scores.
Compute curriculum checkpoint scores.
Actually, I do wonder if this is um
well, there's potential logic change in
here.
It's just a little bit here, a little
bit there, a little bit here, a little
bit there.
Yeah, a lot of this is this block scan.
um
allocations and memory management. Total
mess.
Allocator doesn't super help, does it?
This is all the peer
or I know the priority queue.
Kuba scan.
Yeah, we don't need to preserve current
sampling.
Okay. So, this is this right here.
This is not bad.
Wait, but you still need the CDF,
huh?
Yeah, it's getting it's getting lost in
details.
Actually, this operation has got to be
in Um,
Uh, yeah, Val, I saw that. That's the
A6. That's the R six000s, though. That's
not the 5090s. The 5090s on there are
already overpriced.
They're literally going to raise the
price to 75,000 for that four GPU box.
It's ridiculous.
Yeah, 45 is nuts for the 5090 box. Like
now like I at 25. Okay.
Um because the prices are [__] at the
moment. Like 35 maybe. I wouldn't even
pro I probably wouldn't even get it at
for a 4GPU box.
Um,
you know, maybe a good 8GPU box at 60.
Yeah, exactly. So, I'm not going to be
buying this [__] when the prices are
going up, right?
We'll just be patient.
I'm actually surprised we're not seeing
um you know people selling cheap H
servers as they're replacing those
or 800 servers.
So they'd have to be really cheap
because in my mind those cards are only
as valuable as like 4090s for 800s.
Yeah. Um, if you don't need the memory,
it's a terrible deal
compared to like literally just buying
4090s will be faster.
pretty much pepper.
What was it for? Um,
was it 25K?
It was like expensive, I think, at 25K
for that.
Yeah. 6K each.
One B200.
Well, the other funny thing about the
B200s is the B200 is slower than a 5090
um with our current setup on a lot of
the tasks. So, um you can just spend all
your money and have slower than your
[__] gaming desktop. up.
a little bit of speed.
And this is a normal ass priority queue,
isn't it?
Also, I think that the state heap is
over complicated.
Yeah, I think this can be done faster.
Can we get a normal priority queue from
anywhere?
Huh?
Does this get us down to below 600? Very
nice. And that's a perfect improvement.
This
Oh, wait. Hang on.
This this
Actually, that is funny. This would be a
radic sword, wouldn't it?
It's fun.
Okay.
That's good.
And then I I don't like the way this
thing is done. I think this has done a
stupid job with the priority cues.
I need to get a Tylenol because I'm like
losing the ability to function Here.
Okay, you can go run this and then I
will run I will rerun training.
It's fine.
This is a little faster. You see this
actually is a little faster than before.
You going to get anything here? Any
rewards?
Uh,
that seems as bad.
Oh, wait. There.
There it goes. Okay. So, we got unlucky
at the start. You can get unlucky and
not see it for a few times um longer.
Okay, it is already then I misread it.
I think it has to be
it has to be this way, doesn't it?
Yeah, cuz we can't compute the advantage
ahead of time.
buffer. This also took a big hit to PF.
I want to see if this was an unlucky
seed because it seemed to me that we got
very very unlucky on um the first
sample.
It's 1 in 10 million. And it took 30
million before I saw a um any score at
all.
Okay, that's better.
We'll see what this converges to.
Is there anything else we could do
algorithmically instead of this?
Okay, we're going to have to see if
there was a per a regression here
first.
Well, this isn't so much check the list,
Jess. This is like, you know, do I
really need this? Is there any other way
to do the same thing?
But I think you do kind of want a
priority queue here, don't you?
Cuz don't you just want to keep around
the top the top K most informative
states?
I mean, you could also just set a a
threshold,
but I don't like the idea of setting a
threshold because the distribution of
advantage is different for every And
8. Where the Where's my asymmetry?
That's funky.
Okay, this is looking much better. I
think there is not a performance
regression and there's just um well, you
expect this thing to be seed and
unstable, right? Because like you lose
30% of your samples or 40% of your
samples just by getting unlucky on when
you get the first reward.
Yeah, we're above 70. We're good.
Yeah.
Fine.
importance.
Like why do we need to destroy that?
Because we have two different things,
right? We have the computation of
priority and we have the sampling op.
Possibly we could merge these
I don't know if you can reduce the
number of passes here.
I think there are a few global norms in
the way.
Maybe
You're not doing anything wrong. It's a
language for idiots.
Like the Rust community is to
programming languages what the Arch
community is to distros. It's like a
bunch of people that are supposed to be
smart for whatever reason having focused
in on completely the wrong [__]
thing.
Let's see.
Compute raw absolute advantage priority
normalize into prob
cube scan prob into CDF multinnomial
sample. Comput is weight.
right? Because the the thing is you're
already going to do the normalization
anyways with the multinnomial sample,
right?
So, this I didn't I'm going to admit I
didn't fully understand this, but I kind
of have the idea that because you have
two normalization operations, you can
probably just not normalize the first
time around and rely on the second norm.
Y
I still don't like how we're doing the
memory management stuff here.
This
This is actually kind of a cool insight,
isn't it?
It should get shorter.
Little bit shorter.
It's actually it's about the same, but I
believe it is
should be fewer kernels.
Yeah. So, here's the um
Okay,
more manageable.
Still not done yet.
We'll be able to commit it though. Nice.
I'll probably also run this against 2048
where I go to dinner in a couple hours,
few hours.
It'll be good.
Okay, this is throwaway test. We don't
care about this.
Starship flight 12. Cool.
Okay. Temple
H.
Okay.
Nice.
Check breakout as well.
Uh if there's any speed up here, it's
not discernable for a run that's this
low. We might see it on breakout.
I believe that could be like a couple
percent.
Okay, so this is annoying. Um, it can't
learn until it gets any nonzero score.
And you can just get really unlucky with
that. Okay, there it goes. We got
unlucky in the sense that it was
supposed to take 20 mil and it uh 10
mil. It took 20 mil.
Uh, do we latch on or not?
Okay, we do.
nice.
It latches on
I'm going test this on on breakout in a
second after we test this on.
So far so good. We got to do a breakout
as well just to be sure.
Okay, we got a couple things here
and yep, we preserve Perf.
and try to break out before we do this
because this is a lot of code change.
pass.
Okay, we still train the 20.8.
Ah, look at that. We recover a little
bit of the PF as well. That's better. I
think we got back like 1 or 2% PF.
Yeah, we don't want this heat move to
the GPU.
That's a lot of data. We don't ever want
this data on GPU.
high. Yeah. Okay.
So, I mean that's not unexpected, right?
You shouldn't do it on CPU probably. I
don't know why it suggested that, but
I mean it's possible it could have been
faster. I guess we checked it. It's not.
That's fine. We just get the small
change.
Still 575 lines.
Yeah, this is real bad, right?
16k.
Not very bad.
All right.
Uh, no idea, man.
Let me just keep going through this.
I still don't like the way we're doing
memory.
This state buffer seems bloated to me,
but I can't find anything initially to
cut out of it
today versus yesterday. Just this is
mostly implementation side stuff today.
Um
so some speed improvements, efficiency
improvements for this. Uh it's now
basically no no overhead compared to
puffer 4.
And uh we are cleaning up and reducing
the code size for it. I think we can
probably get the code size to be about
the same as puffer 4, maybe two 300
lines longer because we're also able to
fuse some of this stuff in with the peer
from before.
I mean, Puffer 5 really isn't going to
be a ton of code, right?
It's the It's an algorithmic change.
Like, this is an algorithmic update for
the most part.
I think it'd be great if we have puffer
five shorter than puffer four.
Are we back?
I think the internet just blipped. I
think we're good though.
565 lines.
The big one is around how curriculum
integrates with rollouts.
So look, if we looking at what's taking
up code now, it's a lot cleaner, right?
So here are your buffers. You got your
priority re prioritize replay buffer.
You got a state buffer. They have their
allocation functions as your first 90
lines of code.
Here is the uh calculation of the
prioritized replay coefficients. Right
there.
Here is your computation of
um
like summed ab was it sum of abs of
value function.
I don't know why we have a separate
importance weight score function.
I I I'll look at that.
Okay, here's your multinnomial path. All
this is sampling multinnomial
uh init state buffer here actually
This could all go up here,
right? Because this is with your state
buffer.
So that should be here.
And then what are we left with?
Oh yeah. So this stuff here I think
yeah okay there's multinnomial
and then here this is all of the state
buffer stuff the heat the state heap
this is your priority queue
this is your checkpointing logic
and then this stuff at the bottom is the
last thing that we need to like go
through properly Okay.
chunks of it for sure. Coder
Yeah.
Like for instance, right, this is
so some of this stuff here
like this multinnomial kernel is an
iteration on prior sampling code.
So this is taken partially from puffer 4
and then we realize that the same
operation has to happen in a slightly
different context for puffer 5.
We can merge the code paths. Now, I
haven't done the line by line edits for
stuff yet because like um these models
are very defensive and [__] So, I'm
sure that when I go through line by
line, I'm going to find lots of stuff
like I don't know, should this ever be
null,
right? Things like this.
But the goal is to have 500 lines of
code to review manually and 500 lines of
code that are already split up
correctly. Like I can't manually review
800 lines of crap that's just written in
a way that doesn't make any sense. So
first this is like a combination of read
code,
go to codeex, read code back and forth
until I massage it into roughly what I
think should be the right shape and then
I manually fix [__]
Like I'm still not happy. for instance,
right here with the memory allocations.
I don't know if I want to use our
allocator on this or what, or if I just
like if this actually needs this many
different buffers.
It probably does,
but this is very like this is very
obnoxious.
Yeah. Okay. This didn't need puffer all
anyways.
Runs.
Okay, that goes there.
Yeah, it doesn't need puffer. That's
fine.
So, this compute curriculum checkpoint
scores
Okay, this has this has to exist.
This makes sense.
State importance weights.
Where are we using this thing?
Okay, this gets used exactly once
and this gets used in
Why is this a separate function?
Let me make sure that this actually
makes sense what I'm thinking here.
It's computing both of them at once is
why I See?
Hey
per roll out row and agent. I see.
Hang on.
So, the thing I suggested makes sense,
but there were ramifications I didn't
consider.
I'm use a restroom first real quick and
then we're going to figure out whether
this makes sense. I'll be right back.
Hey, bet.
All right,
let's figure out if this thing makes
sense.
So
first of all this entire thing is sketch
but regardless of whether this should be
here
you compute
prioritization sampling.
You compute the samples.
Even this might be able to be fused but
okay. So we compute
prioritization.
We sample the indices.
We move them to the GPU.
We copy over states.
Then we copy the G the observations back
to GPU.
I don't understand actually. Yeah, this
doesn't need to be here, right?
Why can't we compute these?
Why can't we compute these when we
sample
this only ever gets called here as well,
but let me see if I agree With this
for M states
per agent state set weights,
we can fuse state set is into the state
sampling only if the sampler writes the
per agent importance array
for the restored agents. At the same
time,
we can fuse state set important sampling
into the state sampling kernel
only if
the sampler writes the per agent
importance array for their stored ends
at the same time.
Yes, that's fine.
This removes intermediates.
Okay.
Yeah, that removes that removes um quite
a bit actually. That's nice.
This is my PR. What do you mean this is
your PR?
Yeah,
to solve the problem.
Um, yeah. So,
it turns out that that wasn't really a
big issue.
And also um it's quite a bit easier to
sample quickly uh with replacement.
So I think this is not necessarily a bad
thing. And that wasn't the the uh Perf
gap.
You seen the Actually, I don't know.
Have you seen the maze results yet?
Okay, perfect. Look, this is exactly
what we wanted. Mine. Get rid of this.
Get rid of this. Let's get rid of this
like too many data structures.
We get rid of this whole kernel. We fuse
it in. This is good.
Maze results. So, what do you do? Bet if
um you have a maze and you only get a
reward by random exploration every 10
million steps.
Yeah, you'll only get if every 10
million steps of random exploration,
you'll solve it once. So, you'll get a
reward once. That's it. No other reward.
What do you do?
This is so nice. That's so much easier.
probably explore more. Ow. You literally
get one signal to go off of every um 10
million steps.
I'll save you the trouble and I'll give
you the answer. Um you run Puffer 5 and
you solve it instantly.
State sets are really [__] good.
So yesterday I solved a um
I mean this is a problem I thought about
for like seven years now honestly. I
call it the latching problem. It's the
problem of once you get a reward once,
how do you efficiently latch on to it?
And um as far as I can tell, there's
essentially no reasonable way to do this
that doesn't exploit either domain
information, [__] tons of compute, or
state sets. and state sets are the
cleanest one.
But look, it's a very clean and general
way of doing what I just told you. Like
that's not tied to mazes in any way.
That's not tied to the structure of it
just having one reward at the end versus
something else. Like
so yeah, this this pretty much rocks.
And now
um I am cleaning up a bunch of code
for all of that.
Minus 40 lines. Lovely.
Uh, the best I've seen is like 80 to 90%
solve rate on 35 by 35 sparse mazes. The
best I've seen with puffer 4 is 0%.
Or I guess 0.006
or whatever. Like I think that's the
random solve rate.
Yeah, 35 by 35. And this is with no
smaller mazes to be clear. It's
dramatically easier with smaller mazes
as scaffolding. This is purely all the
mazes are 35 by 35.
Yeah.
What's the speed here?
Okay. So, it's about the same speed as
before. Um
cuz we lost a little bit of speed with
one compilation change and then we got
it back with some kernel improvements.
Yeah. And um also the new curriculum
stuff will have essentially no uh no
performance price tag associated to it.
It's just free.
Exception being for Ms that have
absolutely massive state, but even then
it's not that bad.
Uh, I have to push this actually. In
fact, let me just make a commit
cuz I haven't done that in a Oh.
Yeah, you can see that. That's a nice
nice diff though, right?
And yes, I'm using codeex for some
stuff,
but if you can't tell the difference
between what I'm doing and just vibe
coding the crap out of everything,
that's on you.
Okay,
let's try this.
All right, so
I at least want to get this into the um
like these are the correct kernels and
these are the correct operations to run
before I start going through the line by
line. Now look, we lose 100 some odd
lines here to the state stuff just
because we needed a priority queue.
Uh
what else we got?
Compute pryo abs.
I don't think we can.
Uh, I see.
Damn.
Yeah, this is the annoying [__] with um
Yeah, this is the annoying [__] with
Uh, I mean just just like we haven't
really tested this well outside of mazes
yet. So, I don't have any idea of what
tweaks are needed to get this working
with other stuff. I'm kind of trying to
make this efficient and works well on
the mazes. And then I'm going to start
doing the broader sweeps.
No, but not like password was screwy.
Um, better environment is the sparse
mazes.
Let me try
multi- agent. It shouldn't be, Jess. As
long as it's the two agents perm, it
shouldn't Okay.
Wait, how's this work?
Oh, okay. That's actually pretty clever.
Yeah,
cuz it captures all the checkpoints
separate memory. Yeah, that's nice. So,
that actually works perfectly. This is
very good.
And then we've got what? Curriculum
update advantages.
Actually, that's a good question. When
do you call this?
Ah.
Oops.
Stupid thing.
You guys realized that I didn't like
switch models because I thought was one
was better than the other, right? I
literally just switched models because
um I was sick of giving anthropic money.
Like these companies are all building
the same bloody product.
They don't have personalities. They're
[__] nonscentient
token predictors.
Damned RL agents have more more
personality than this thing does.
Okay, look. There was the first score
and now boom latches.
Okay, that is actually true.
You get like the residual
moral grandstanding horseshit shrimp spa
welfare whatever
from the uh
Not really, Steve.
Especially not for learning stuff.
Like, you'll honestly learn way more
just jamming some low-level dev projects
on your own.
That is provided you at least have a
reasonable tool chain setup. like you
know if you're deving C you'd better be
deving C with a dress sanitizer and such
and with GDB
Yeah, but Volo, I also was the type to
not just pay [__] from Stack Overflow,
you know.
Let me go double check the sampling
logic.
Oh, yeah. On the bright side, Volo, uh,
you got some time to do Inferno things
now. Yeah,
that's going to be such a [__] cool
environment.
I think CL should help on it as well.
Buffer contacts.
I mean, it's kind of an open thing that
if you've done stuff around Puffer, like
enough to show that you're competent and
you can also find Puffer a client, like
you will go on the contract.
So, that is an open offer.
All All right. So, MB
Wait, hang on
buffer.
I'm embedding these in my blog now with
W wasome.
You can add it if you want. Wait, you're
embedding what in your blog?
Current policies can be dropped in any
wave and it will just clear. Okay,
that's freaking awesome.
Yeah, I think we will be able to put it
on um on the website.
Volo, I got to look up like, you know,
the inferno trainer doesn't get taken
down, right?
Um so, I got to double check that, but I
think we're fine. I think that the worst
is we get a cease and desist and we just
take it down. As long as we don't have
the raw assets in the puffer repo and
the website just has like the uh the
binary, I think it's fine.
There's so much more we can do with
Inferno, though, right? Like,
it's practically already doing no pillar
inferno, right? We could literally just
have it do no pillar inferno. Um,
there's also pure inferno.
See the problem is Yeah. If you
The problem is if you ask right like Dev
will ask legal to cover their asses and
then legal will say no because that's
all that legal knows how to do.
like for literally anything.
But like if you just put something out,
right, and it's not against their
whatever, like they're not going to go
out of their way to take stuff down.
That's cool. It's mainly that they have
an obligation, I think, to ask legal if
you ask them directly. So, there's some
stuff to do there.
Yeah, I think Spencer's right.
Like this is not us trying to weasle out
of anything. This is just like the dumb
office politics.
Yeah, we have the same one. Volo.
Um, for reference, it implemented this
section of the algorithm completely
wrong. So hopefully it gets better now.
I only caught it in manual review.
So, it was updating at the wrong time.
It should be updating right here at the
end.
Let's see how this goes.
We're going to see what percent perf we
get on maze. Okay, that's the first
reward. Now it immediately latches on.
You see that
88.2 2 is very good. Um, if you pass d-
seed and you pass a different seed, I'd
be interested to see if you still get
the same result.
Um, puffer is not seed sensitive, but
the exploration part here is very seed
sensitive, like just intrinsically.
It's a rare event.
If this does worse, it'll be weird,
though. Actually, worse here is hard to
pin down because it's so sparse.
I mean, I guess we'll just wait and see.
We're making good progress here, though.
I mean, this is good progress.
Every little additional fix we do takes
us a bit closer.
I really like this terraform end as
well.
Mostly that was Spencer.
Okay, this is doing well so far.
Oo,
this is cool.
Made with Rayb.
And this isn't Raleb. That's cool.
Oh, this is very good. Yeah, this is
very good right here. This is This made
a big difference.
Sent another vid.
Um, I actually had something I was
planning to do with send, cut, send, and
then I got distracted.
Ooh.
All right. Uh, are you satisfied with
this environment, Spencer? Like, do you
see that this was a good selfplay one or
not really yet?
Because it's starting to get to like
some of the crazy things you see.
I think that the ram thing is just like
once you've secured an advantage,
ramming makes it impossible. Like it
just collapses the strategy space.
But like as soon as you've secured an
advantage, yeah, that's probably what it
is. Okay, this made a big difference. So
this was good.
High variance zero.56.
All right. H
shouldn't have zero ever. I guess it is
technically possible.
Yeah, but it's the thing is it's not
necessarily that the algorithm is
sensitive to seed. It's that you need to
get like one to three instances of the
reward and the rewards one in 10
million. So, like you can actually just
get unlucky and not see you can
basically not see a seed until their
learning rate's already decayed by half.
I think that this should help what I
just did though. This should help a
little bit
here.
like yeah see it just hasn't gotten any
reward.
Uh okay so this is what's happened
actually.
So um this is hypers actually. Yeah this
is hypers. You see this? So it's just
collapsed the entropy too early.
I think that's a bug that we can work on
though. Like this it's not a bug. It's
an algorithmic quirk.
Uh, it's templated. Good.
Bullet bullet collisions.
Uh, I forgot about that.
Yeah, I forgot about that.
don't like this.
Maybe it's fine for now like it
I do think we have the correct structure
now for the most part.
Yeah, we do have this correct structure.
How much code do we have?
500 lines. So, not bad.
It should the allocator should be
catching this.
Yes, Spence. There's 500 lines now for
the new stuff and it should be basically
free per like overhead wise.
Um, it's still we still need to do a
bunch of testing to see if it actually
helps on other ends, but it does add a
fundamentally new capability, it seems.
Yeah, you don't need it for you don't
need it for 1 v one. You can't see the
bullets.
Uh to be clear, you would need it if you
could see the bullets, but part of the
design of that environment is that you
Can't.
This should be good enough to use.
have to get all the sample all the uh
the kernel names correct next as well.
We're almost done for the day. I think
I think with a good day tomorrow, we can
fully finish
we can fully finish this code. Hopefully
get initial results.
um
even clean up Vec
and then next week we get to start on
all of the other Puffer 5 things. We
could literally just do Puffer 5 in two
weeks which would be pretty cool.
So obviously the experiments will drag
on longer
and then I wouldn't mind taking more
time in um in Puffer 5 if we do get it
all done that quickly. Um I get to just
take some time. Obviously, I need to do
some stuff for the business as well, but
then I'm also going to have some time to
just like learn a bit more proper kernel
dev. Um, you know, really
understand and clean up some of our
kernel paths a little bit better. Um,
dial in Perf a little bit more.
It'll be good.
Terraform might be a useful end for
this. I don't know. We'll see.
Oh, yeah. For all the folks who are uh
still watching this,
don't forget to start Puffer on GitHub.
It's free. It helps us out a ton. Can
also join Discord to get involved with
all this stuff and follow on X. Um if
you want more reinforcement learning
content, all my articles are right here.
Yeah, Terra will be really cool.
No, I don't think I'm going to do state
coverage this update. Yes, I think like
my tendency would be to want to do that,
but um I think I'd rather just make sure
everything is nice and stable with this
in it first and make sure the company
business-wise is fine and then take some
time to like think about really what's
remaining on the ALGO side.
This is like this is enough of a win for
this update already.
I mean, of course, if we sweep this on
every on every environment, it only
helps on mazes, then okay, maybe not.
Um, but I it should help somewhere.
What the [__] is this?
else can get clients first.
Well, it helps.
I mean, look, we've gotten people before
where it's like somebody's very, very
good in an area and then we happen to
find a client that's in that exact area.
But yeah, the easiest way is to also be
involved with finding of clients.
It's a pretty good gig by default.
The uh contracts are 50/50 unless
there's a compelling reason for them not
to be.
Fine.
Yeah. I know Jess, that's that is
assuming that you've done some work on
both the um obtaining of the contract
and on the developing of the
environment.
Okay.
There we go.
I mean, if I were to try another
language and like have to use it, it
would probably be either um
Zigg or Go,
just from what I've heard.
No, Zig and Rust are very different.
Rust is like [__] shoot me.
Yeah, I think I probably would find go
to be too high uh high level.
Does go have garbage collection or RAI?
It has a [__] garbage collector. [__]
off.
No thank you.
No thank you. [__] that language.
No thanks.
I'm good.
I'm just good.
Whoops.
This is fine.
Does Zig have um R I I
Nope. Okay, good.
I might be fine then. The thing is like
you need to give me a compelling reason
to not just use C. And the thing is that
most of these languages give you a
couple reasons to not just use C, but
then uh they [__] it up by like adding
too much [__]
I think we're good, right?
Okay, this is a very nice PR.
So,
you see that we deleted like a thousand
lines of code from Puffer, but then we
only ended up with 500 lines here. I
think a lot of this was debug.
I think a lot of it was debug.
We'll see.
I think I pushed the check results
thing.
Yeah, like I said, Jess, Zig seems fine.
Like of all the things it seems mostly
fine there.
Huh?
What?
What the [__]
Is this
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Just need to change some names is fine.
and slightly irritating, but whatever.
Good progress though.
Like, why the [__] would you ever do
this?
No.
All right,
that ought to do it.
Okay, cool.
Seems fine.
Not do that.
I think I'm mostly done for today. Um,
we can do a very quick
I suppose we can very quickly
Maze sweep status.
Wait, do you have full solves of mazes?
Huh?
Wait, what branch did you get a full
solve? Is this 35 by35? because I've
never seen a full solve.
That would actually be kind of
significant. I can see that you changed
something cuz it's 150 mil.
What did you do, B?
And is this like a recent version of the
code? because I didn't re sweep.
H.
What do we have here?
What's this?
Dang.
That
actually tell me if this works.
It's always sketchy when it's like one
experiment.
Why would you ever do this?
You've got to be [__] me.
You are [__] slower than Vizdoom.
You're using the wrong render settings.
Reinforcement learning Twitter is just
[__] stupid. I swear
Doom literally can get over 100K. So,
good job
on CPU.
All right. Why are we sticking this
anywhere?
What are we doing?
Let's see.
I like the ve opaque.
pushing code. Can you just tell me what
you did bet to get it to full self
CPU to 1 mil?
Uh,
I don't want to commit to doing that,
Jess. It's like
return on time is pretty low.
I basically I want to see once we have
better cleaned up kernels how much of a
pain it would be.
Good.
All right. No more cool research on
here. It seems
if anybody wants to go look at the
schedule free stuff. Last time I checked
it, it didn't work. Maybe it works now.
I mean, that would prevent us from
having to do MUP.
But I um
I don't know about that because I think
it is for one size maybe.
Okay, give away this stuff. Go away.
Nice little PR.
All gone.
And this has to go into CPU again.
What are we [__] doing?
Oh, we're just busting [__] into this.
Lovely.
Okay, this is still dumb, but I don't
particularly care for now.
Oh, I'll look at your PR in a second.
Can you just tell me what you did, or is
it a lot of stuff?
explanation is stupid.
All right.
Well, none of the GPUs have died yet, so
that's probably better.
Not doing very well yet, but we'll see
what it does.
State Q
Wait, what?
Wall prob? What do you mean wall prob?
You changed the [__] mazes.
What?
Wall? Wait, what the [__] Wall prop.
probably because his father made like
solved the task by removing all of the
walls.
I didn't even know I exposed that. Wait,
do I even expose that?
Where you see wall prop
there? Literally, that variable doesn't
even exist. Dude, what did you do?
I think I'm going to end up reviewing
this PR and you're going to not be super
happy that I do.
Huh?
Wrong GPU.
Obstacle for density knob.
Yeah. Okay. Bet. You literally just
solved the mazes by deleting the walls.
Good job.
Ensure mazes are solvable. Uh-huh.
The mazes are always solvable.
I mean, dude,
you [__] deleted the obstacles.
Are you Are you [__] me, dude? Like,
are you [__] me?
You know better than this. You do. I
know you know better than this.
Holy crap, man.
There's no curriculum at all.
That's why this result is impressive.
Like the end of itself has no
curriculum. It's like stupid absolutely
impossible sparse task.
That's why it's cool.
Oh, well that's nice. Cool. We're
already up to 10k.
Uh in okay long run is 10k. Cool. So
huh.
Cool. Well, I suppose we will uh we'll
let this run. And
we have all of our GPUs active.
Hopefully it doesn't crash anything.
And we should be good
glass ceiling.
Yeah, there is no moat doesn't literally
mean delete the moat. And look now, now
you can cross.
Um,
I think for the time being this is like
pretty solid progress, right?
Let's maybe word count.
So
yeah,
2700 lines
for these
700 plus
3K.
Yeah, it's under it's like less than 4K
lines of real source. This is good. I'm
happy with this
at least for now, right? Like obviously
this is not done finished code. I think
we can get it to that point tomorrow
maybe
but 529 lines for curriculum. Also, I
want to see how many lines the um
how many lines is the 40 puffer
2253.
Wait, 2253 lines.
Yeah. Yeah. So, we add less than 500
lines. Um,
we add less than 500 lines of code to do
curriculum.
And we made it faster.
Do I dare open this on? I don't dare
open this on stream.
Oh my god.
Yeah, good job, man. You really solved
exploration there,
dude. It's literally a straight shot.
You literally go one direction and then
you go to the right and then you go down
and you solve the maze. Yeah. Okay.
Good job, B.
You know, I don't know what the [__]
you're doing that you even get it to
mess with that. Like, how did you manage
to do that and not notice?
Like the worst thing I didn't catch
today was um
it setting advantages on the first
iteration of a loop instead of at the
end of the loop.
Holy crap. That's whole another level.
Okay.
Um, so I think we are set though. Like
let me see if there's anything else we
can do on this list.
Oops. Nope. So, refactor environments.
We have a bunch of environments, but
this is easy. Literally, Codeex can go
do all of these. I don't want to do it
now. I'm going to do it when I'm fresh
because otherwise I'll miss stupid
things.
Multi-agents done. Testms are done. Good
enough.
Starting these now.
This is done.
We cleaned up a bunch of kernels.
There's much more to do. I think this is
the thing we'll spend some time on. This
we don't care about. Uh we're going to
play with Soon, I think. But other than
just cleaning up the kernel code a
little bit more, which to be fair, I
could just say it's done for now and we
come back to that. Um, if we get some
reasonable results at least.
So,
this one is super easy to do and
possibly useful. Very easy to test.
So, is this
this I have to think about and protein
changes from Luke. I think this is like
a Monday or Tuesday type thing.
I actually do want to spend some time on
this, but I think we can very very
reasonably
have um a nice like stable puffer five
um sometime next week.
What am I doing tomorrow? Friday.
Well, we're going to see what we get
results wise from this initial sweep.
Hopefully, we get something out of this.
We'll see. I do hope we get something
out of this. Um, we'll also try Soaban
if this doesn't work.
Uh,
and I guess tomorrow we'll like we'll
see if we want to if I feel like
cleaning up more kernels or if I feel
like I feel like porting all the M's
over, maybe getting it on Volo's Inferno
if he gets the environment uh submitted
up depending
I think we're making very good time
here.
Like that initial solve was pretty good.
Pretty pretty good.
Well, it's 4:36. Um, I thought I was
going to be done by 5, but if there's
nothing else to look at, I don't see any
reason not to be done. A little bit
early today.
I will remind folks
if you're new around here, I stream
pretty much all of my dev,
you can find all my stuff here. All the
writing that I do, all the educational
stuff is at Juarez on X.
Uh, I do not have the mental bandwidth
left to review Jonah's kernels at the
moment, Jess. I have several like very
important colonel PRs to review. I those
need to be done fresh.
Um yeah, for folks watching though, X
for articles, Discord to get involved.
That's the whole community. And uh just
start the GitHub. Like this number
really really helps me out a lot. And
every time I do um like these long dev
grinds, it kind of starts to flatten out
a little bit. Really, really helps when
we keep getting this consistent growth.
Um it's a really good signal to
companies, we get more interested
clients, and it just helps us out a lot.
So go ahead and do that.
PR.
Did you PR this crap?
I see you closed it. I assume. Oh,
Aurora imple.
Oh.
Wait, is this the
Hey, Jess, is this um the efficient
version right here?
Aurora optimizer. Small change to Muan.
If Jess is still here
cuz Jess said um he had like a fast
version.
I just want to know if I'm looking at
the correct code because I could very I
could see myself playing with this
tomorrow as well.
I've wanted to play with this. Now,
there are a few simple things I could do
that I think would like improve the
breakout speedrun record and that' kind
of be on.
I uh I gave a talk at this lab um last
week.
When am I streaming games?
Not really planning on it.
Okay. Well, I think Jess is out. So, um,
if anybody wants to figure out whether
or not that Aurora PR is the fast
version, by all means. Uh, I'll probably
look at that either tomorrow or more
likely early next week among the sort of
cleanup things that I'm doing. Uh, thank
you for everyone for tuning in. Star of
the Puffer on GitHub. I will be
streaming tomorrow morning starting
probably sometime between 10:00 a.m. and
11 a.m. Pacific.
See you all around.